{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\info
{\author Aaron Sterling}}\margl1134\margr1134\margb1134\margt1134\vieww12060\viewh12540\viewkind0
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f1 I note that the references are not fully in the order of first citation, most likely due to editing. These references should be put in the appropriate order.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf2 Query in to CACM to clarify proper format for references.
\f0\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f1 p.1, c.2, l.47: synonyms not synonym\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 Corrected.
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.2, c.2, l.7-10: reads as an assertion that if we had the representation of all conformers of a molecule, accurate property predictions would somehow emerge. I do not believe this to be the case and I think the expectations need to be toned down here, or provision of a literature reference to back-up this assertion.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 The reviewer is correct in noting that a complete set of conformers does not imply perfectly accurate property calculations. The point implied was that more conformer coverage is better than less and in the limit, complete coverage is not feasible. In addition,  even if one had the complete set of conformers, crude force-fields, incorrect parametrizations and so on could lead to inaccurate property predictions. \
\
The text has been updated to weaken the assertion and also note the dependency on high quality force-fields, algorithms etc.\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.3, c.1, l.14: ChEMBLdb not ChEMBL - ChEMBL is the group, ChEMBLdb is the resource.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 Corrected.\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.3, c.1, l.39: check definition of SMILES. My understanding is that it means Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry Specification.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 According to the Wikipedia entry on SMILES, it stands for, \'93Simplified molecular-input line-entry system.\'94  We have changed the text to this.  (Note: the Daylight definition uses the same words, without the hyphens.)\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.3, c.2, l.35: unfeasible not infeasible.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 Corrected.\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.3, c.2, l.35: I do not believe structural fingerprints fit the term heuristic. They are a description of a molecule not a method of rule-set.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 The use of 'heuristic' was wrong in this context and the text has been updated to note the use of fingerprints as filters
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.3, c.2, l.45-47: I would prefer to see Daylight fingerprints mentioned prior to ECFP here in chronological order.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 Corrected.\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.4, c.2, l.20: I do not think the examples that graph methods miss in terms of property calculations are appropriate. I can think of approaches that use only topology which would work for these.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 It is certainly true that topological approaches perform comparably to more involved descriptions of molecular structure. Hence we have highlighted two use cases that are not addressable by using labeled graphs (assuming that recalculated parameterizations are not considered - which excludes fragment based approaches for properties such as logP, surface area etc)\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.5, c.1, l.33: seems to suggest that the biologically relevant conformation is still very close to the global minimum since this is what a conformer search will provide: family of low-energy conformers. However, it has been demonstrated that bound small molecules can have significantly higher energies.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 This is true and the text has been updated to note that the biologically relevant conformer may be significantly higher in energy than the minimum energy conformer.	\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\f0\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 p.7, c.2, l.32: this all relies on data quality which is a pressing challenge from disparate data sources - brief mention of challenges here would be useful. \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 The text has been updated to note that Open Data on it's own does not lead to good or reproducible science. Due to the page limit restriction we have not gone into explicit details, though we note that some issues are discussed on page 7, c1
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ql\qnatural

\i \cf2 \
}